---
layout: post
title: Writing MATLAB code for quasi-infinite horizon nonlinear model predictive control
excerpt:
comments: true
category: blog
---

In this post we will examine how to build a nonlinear model predictive controller (NMPC) with guaranteed stability using MATLAB. The stability property is obtained by construction using the quasi-infinite horizon (QIH) method proposed in Chen and Allgöwer (1998)[^Chen1998].

In the QIH-NMPC method the finite horizon constrained optimal control problem is

$$\begin{align*}
\text{minimize} & \quad \int_{0}^{T}{\left\Vert x(t)\right\Vert^2_Q + \left\Vert u(t)\right\Vert^2_R} ~dt + \left\Vert x(T)\right\Vert^2_P  \\
\text{subject to} & \quad x(0) = x_0 \\
& \quad x(T) \in \Omega \\
& \quad \text{for } t \in [0,T]: \\
& \qquad \dot{x}(t) = f(x(t),u(t)) \\
& \qquad x(t) \in \mathcal{X} \\
& \qquad u(t) \in \mathcal{U},
\end{align*}$$

where $x(t) \in \mathcal{R}^n$ is the state, $u(t) \in \mathcal{R}^m$ is the control input, $f(\cdot)$ is the dynamics, $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{U}$ are the sets expressing state and control input constraints, respectively, $x_0$ is the measurement, $T$ is the prediction horizon, $Q \in \mathcal{R}^{n \times n}$, $R \in \mathcal{R}^{m \times m}$, and $P \in \mathcal{R}^{n \times n}$ are matrices specifying the weights on the state, control input, and the terminal state, respectively, whereas $\Omega$ is the terminal region, which is an ellipsoid defined as follows

$$\begin{equation*}
\Omega = \{ x \in \mathcal{R}^n ~:~ x^T P x \leq \alpha,
\end{equation*}$$

where $0<\alpha$ is a scalar specifying the size of the ellipsoid.

The QIH-NMPC method ensures stability via obtaining the terminal cost (specified by $P$) and the terminal region (specified by $P$ and $\alpha$) with specific features: The terminal region specifies an invariant set of the nonlinear system under a local linear controller, whereas the terminal cost represents an upper bound on the infinite horizon cost starting from the terminal state inside $\Omega$ under said linear controller. 

As application example, we consider the following two-dimensional nonlinear system from Chen and Allgöwer (1998)[^Chen1998]

$$\begin{align*}
\dot{x}_1(t) & = x_2(t) + u(t) \left( \mu + (1 - \mu)x_1(t) \right) \\
\dot{x}_2(t) & = x_1(t) + u(t) \left( \mu - 4(1 - \mu)x_2(t) \right)
\end{align*}$$

We resort to the semidefinite programming based method of Chen, O’Reilly, and Ballance (2003)[^Chen2003]

[^Chen1998]: Chen, H., & Allgöwer, F. (1998). A Quasi-Infinite Horizon Nonlinear Model Predictive Control Scheme with Guaranteed Stability. Automatica, 34(10), 1205-1217. Available at: [https://engineering.purdue.edu/~zak/ECE680/Chen-Allgower_1998.pdf](https://engineering.purdue.edu/~zak/ECE680/Chen-Allgower_1998.pdf).

[^Chen2003]: Chen, W. H., O'Reilly, J., & Ballance, D. J. (2003). On the terminal region of model predictive control for non‐linear systems with input/state constraints. International Journal of Adaptive Control and Signal Processing, 17(3), 195-207.












